.\" Copyright (C) 2004  Rafael Laboissiere
.\"
.\" This man page is part of PLplot.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source (XML DocBook) and "compiled" forms
.\" (HTML, PDF, PostScript, DVI, TeXinfo and so forth) with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code (XML DocBook) must retain the
.\" above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\" disclaimer as the first lines of this file unmodified.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in compiled form (transformed to other DTDs,
.\" converted to HTML, PDF, PostScript, and other formats) must
.\" reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
.\" the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
.\" materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" Important: THIS DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED BY THE PLPLOT PROJECT "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PLPLOT PROJECT BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENTATION,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH PLPR 1
.SH NAME
plpr \- converts PLplot metafile to something the printer will understand
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plpr
.I "file"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR plpr ,
command.
.PP
.B plpr
Takes the named metafile and converts it to something your printer
will understand.  This will be improved later to handle multiple
printers and printer settings.  Only intended for use from the
plplot/TK driver!  It deletes the named metafile after converting to
the proper type so this is not suitable for general use.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See /usr/share/doc/plplot/plplot.ps.gz for more details.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Rafael Laboissiere <rafael@debian.org>.
