.\" Copyright (C) 2004  Rafael Laboissiere
.\"
.\" This man page is part of PLplot.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source (XML DocBook) and "compiled" forms
.\" (HTML, PDF, PostScript, DVI, TeXinfo and so forth) with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code (XML DocBook) must retain the
.\" above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\" disclaimer as the first lines of this file unmodified.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in compiled form (transformed to other DTDs,
.\" converted to HTML, PDF, PostScript, and other formats) must
.\" reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
.\" the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
.\" materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" Important: THIS DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED BY THE PLPLOT PROJECT "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PLPLOT PROJECT BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENTATION,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH PLSERVER 1
.SH NAME
plserver \- PLplot graphics server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plserver
.I "[args]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR plserver ,
command.
.PP
.B plserver
is just a front-end to the pltkMain() function.  Structured along the
preferred lines for extended wish'es.  It typically runs as a child
process from the PLplot TK driver to render output.  Can use either TK
send or Tcl-DP RPC for communication, depending on how it is invoked.
.PP
Note that plserver can be used the same way as wish or dpwish, as it
contains the functionality of each of these (except the \-notk Tcl-DP
command-line option is not supported).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See /usr/share/doc/plplot/plplot.ps.gz for more details.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Rafael Laboissiere <rafael@debian.org>.
