.\" Copyright (C) 2004  Rafael Laboissiere
.\"
.\" This man page is part of PLplot.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source (XML DocBook) and "compiled" forms
.\" (HTML, PDF, PostScript, DVI, TeXinfo and so forth) with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code (XML DocBook) must retain the
.\" above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\" disclaimer as the first lines of this file unmodified.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in compiled form (transformed to other DTDs,
.\" converted to HTML, PDF, PostScript, and other formats) must
.\" reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
.\" the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
.\" materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" Important: THIS DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED BY THE PLPLOT PROJECT "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PLPLOT PROJECT BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENTATION,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH PSTEXT2EPS 1 2003-02-11
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
pstex2eps \- Generate EPS file from PLplot pstex driver generated file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pstex2eps
.RI <filename>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBpstex2eps\fP is a program that generates an Encapsulated Postscript file
(eps) from the PLplot pstex driver generated files.
.PP
<filename> is the name of the output file you specified with the -o option
in PLplot.  There must exist two files, the postscript file without text,
<filename>, and the latex file with the text, <filename>_t.
.PP
The output file will be named <filename>.eps.
.PP
The Computer Modern Type 1 fonts will be included in the output eps file. If
you intent to use the plot figure in LaTeX, just use a plain
\\include{<filename>_t} in your latex file.
.SH SEE ALSO
The PLplot package at http://plplot.sf.net
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Rafael Laboissiere <rafael@debian.org>.
