The official PLplot wiki home page is located at
<https://sourceforge.net/p/plplot/wiki/Home/>.

As of 2014-10-05 (see mailing-list post with subject line "I have
completed moving our Wiki to SourceForge" for all the details) pandoc
(to convert from mediawiki format to markdown), sed scripts, and some
hand editing were used to propagate our old wiki (at
<http://www.miscdebris.net/plplot_wiki/> to the above SF site.  At
that time date tags were applied to all our SF wiki pages to indicate
when they had last been updated.  Since that propagation quite a few
of those SF wiki pages have been further updated (along with their
date tags) using the SF GUI editor for wiki pages.

But I have now (2018-11-01) decided that instead of relying on that
GUI editor it is a much better procedure to put the Markdown source
for all those ~50 wiki pages under git control in this directory.  Accordingly
I have copied the Markdown source of all our SF wiki pages here (using ctrl-c
in a SF GUI editor selection for a selection of the entire page there, and paste within
a file edit session to copy that text to a file in this directory.

So from now on to update a wiki page do the following:

* File edit the Markdown source for the wiki page of interest in this directory
  using your favorite file editor.

* Propagate those changes to a GUI editor session (accessible with a browser)
  for the relevant wiki page at SF.
  This is done, e.g., by selecting text within the file editor, and using ctrl-v
  within the GUI editor to propagate that text to that GUI editor. 

* Once you are happy with the updated SF wiki result, then commit the
  markdown file change using git.

The advantages of this method are it gives us version control of wiki
pages, it gives us an automatic backup of our wiki pages, and it
allows our developers to use their favorite editor to update the wiki.
